---
layout: post
title: "SFI class"
category: 
tags: [swedish]
---
{% include JB/setup %}
    SFI stands for _Svenska för invandrare_. It's a program run by swedish government for immigrants from other countries. It's free course and as long as you have personal number in Sweden you can attend it.
    SFI courses are provied by local schools that qualified by government. I heard that from A-D normally takes around 1 year. Mastering Swedish language is ultra important for immigrants to find a job in Sweden. 
    Normally you need to wait for quite long time to be in class. But in small classes as Karlskrona, there are not so many immigrants. Joining in SFI courses are not as difficult as that difficult in metropolitan as Stockholms. There are of course disadvtanges: for persons with full time job as me, the time slot provided in Karlskrona is from 16:00-19:00. 
    This means that besides a full time job ( 7,75 hours in sweden), I need to spend 12 hours per week. The review is not included. That's really tough. There aer also some urgent case at office to deal with, which prevents me from being in SFI at 4:00pm.
    Last Wedsney is my first trial class at SFI. Textbook is RIVSTART A1+A2. The joining time point is 19/20 of the whole semeter. That became even hard for me to follow. Pia, my teacher, commented on my situation: you must work very hard.
    Today's class is taught by Lena, another techer in SFI. Topic of today's course is listening and writing. OMG! Although I have taught myself Swedish by Rosetta Stone for over 1 year, those 2 aspects are really my short parts. 
    Really need to work hard!

